Group 18 Assignment 5 Project Description

Intended Animation:
A model of the solar system with planets, moons, asteroid belts, and a rocket ship. 
Different celestial bodies would orbit the sun and each other. 

Classes and Implementation:

1. Asteroid
	- Creates an asteroid belt by duplicating 'asteroid.obj' in a circle around the camera. They orbit and rotate synchronously
YOu can control distance from center, size of average asteroid, speed of rotation, and number of asteroids in the belt.
2. Orbiting Object
	- Loads a PShape object from an obj that follows a path around a central object
3. Orbiting System
	- Extends Orbiting Object to create a subsystem of orbitals, like Moon orbiting the Earth and Earth orbiting the Sun
4. Rocket
	- Loads and displays a rocket from 'shuttle_rockets_and_fuel_tank.obj" and moves in upwards through the scene.

Challenges:

The most persistent issue we had was with texture files not loading. Especially for the rocket model, we had to open the original blender file and modify the texture references for them to show in the render, and they still are missing some textures in the final product.
We also struggled a but with git merges and conflicts, we still have some details to iron out in our development logistics.

Contributions:
Abi was in charge of the earth and orbiting the moon. To get the moon to move relative to the position of the earth, she used a class called OrbitingSystem which was made up of two components or objects (earth and moon) that were instantiations of the OrbitingObject class. It should be noted that these two moved in orbit rather differently. The moon used an orbit method in OrbitingObject, and the earth moved by translating the z-axis of the world in the display method in OrbitingSystem. It was a challenge to get the size of the orbits to look correct: this was eventually accomplished through trial and error. The world also continuously rotates along the Y-axis to give the impression of a day and night cycle. Some lights were implemented. A directional light lined up the camera view to give the impression that the camera was located at or in the sun, and a moving point light was implemented according to the moon’s position to give the impression of moonlight. A bluish ambient light was implemented to give the impression of other planets and make the colors more visually appealing. 

Malaika made the Rocket class

Ashwin made the Asteroid class and integrated the other parts of the project.


Note: The obj’s and mtl’s of the moon and earth were retrieved cgtrader.com. The 3d model of the earth was created by vadim-dembitskii, and the 3d model of the moon was created by guruware.